debumblebee project
Service for enabling nVidia graphics cards on laptops with Optimus graphics
(hybrid Intel/nVidia graphics)

Author Igor Urazov <z0rc3r@gmail.com>
Inspired by bumblebee project by Martin Juhl

Licensed under GPL v3 (see LICENSE).

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied warranty. In
no event will the authors be held liable for any damages arising from the use of
this software.

Please read INSTALL file before performing any actions.


DESCRIPTION

This is a fork/major rewrite of original bumblebee project. I've made this fork
because I was very unsatisfied with current bumblebee installation script which
was a real mess. The main point of this project is to create polished and
modular version of bumblebee.

This project allows you to utilize nVidia graphics card with proprietary driver
while running main desktop on Intel card. This service is only for Intel/nVidia
combination, it won't work with Intel/ATI or any other combination.

debumblebee is combination of additional X server for nVidia graphics card and
VirtualGL package which allows to access nVidia X server screen from Intel X
server screen with full OpenGL support.

Right now this script supports only Debian and LinuxMint based on Debian. Feel
free to add support of any other distro. I'll gladly accept your changes. If you
have any questions about adding support please check INSTALL file for detailed
instructions of what should be done by installation script.


USAGE

Check INSTALL file for details. After installation your desktop and all
applications will be running on Intel card. To run application with nVidia card
you need to start it with optirun, for example: "optirun glxgears". To start a
32 bit application on 64 bit arch you should use "-32" option, e.g
"optirun -32 wine ./game.exe".


LIMITATIONS

Right now VDPAU video playback isn't supported.


TROUBLESHOOTING

"[VGL] ERROR: Could not open display :1"
This means that nVidia X server wasn't able to start with current configuration.
The most common issue at this situation is that nVidia module fails to
autodetect name of connected monitor (DFP-0 or CRT-0). You may report this bug,
but you need to attach /var/log/Xorg.1.log, /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia with
outputs of "nvidia-xconfig --query-gpu-info" and
"dmidecode --string system-product-name". DO NOT provide this directly in your
ticket, USE pastebin. Manually this issue can be fixed by adding the following
string into Device section in /etc/X11/xorg.conf.nvidia:
Option "ConnectedMonitor" "DFP-0"
If it isn't helping, then try to change "DFP-0" to "CRT-0".


TODO

* Rewrite optirun with perl, so it can use SGID bit which allows to apply more
  strict security permissions and get rid of sudoers file.


If you have any issues please create ticket at
https://github.com/z0rc/debumblebee
